README.rst, before:

What is this?
=============

``Rdatasets`` is a collection of datasets that are distributed alongside the statistical software environment ``R`` and some of its add-on packages. The goal, here, is to make these data more broadly accessible for teaching and statistical software development. 
 
csv
===

The ``csv`` folder includes all the collected datasets in comma-separated value format. I saved any data I could find in objects of class ``data.frame``, ``matrix``, ``numeric``, and ``table``. 

html
====

The ``html`` folder includes copies of the ``R`` documentation files for each dataset in plain html format. These docs appear to be licensed under GPL.  

I am also (temporarily?) hosting the html files there for easy viewing: http://www.umich.edu/~varel/rdatasets/

Want more?
==========

Many ``R`` packages ship with associated datasets, but the script used here only downloads data from packages that are locally installed. If you spot interesting data in a package distributed on CRAN, let me know, and I may be able to add it. Filing a github issue is best for this.

How to download data yourself
=============================

Just run the ``Rdatasets.R`` script in ``R``. This will save all csv files automatically and will open the docs in Firefox (one tab per dataset). I used the ``SaveAll!`` Firefox extension to batch save all those html files. I'm sure there's a better/cleaner way to save the docs, but it's the easiest way I could think of in the 15 minutes I used to collect ``Rdatasets``.

Commit message:

HTML now downloaded automatically, README clarified

README.rst, after:

What is this?
=============

``Rdatasets`` is a collection of 226 data sets that were originally distributed alongside the statistical software environment ``R`` and some of its add-on packages. The goal is to make these data more broadly accessible for teaching and statistical software development. 

What is included?
=================

* csv folder: 226 data sets in comma-separated values file format
* html folder: ``R`` documentation files for each of these data sets. 
* Rdatasets.R: ``R`` script which downloads CSV copies and HTML docs for all data sets distributed in ``Base R`` and any locally installed add-on package

Online documentation
====================

For convenience, I host web-viewable copies of all data description files here: http://www.umich.edu/~varel/rdatasets/

Adding data
===========

Many ``R`` packages ship with associated data sets, but the script included here only downloads data from packages that are installed locally on the machine where it is run. If you spot interesting data in a package distributed on CRAN, let me know. I will try to install that package on my computer and I will re-run the download script to see if the data can be added to this repository. Requests should be filed on the Github issue tracker.  

License
=======

* The ``R`` documentation which I copied to the ``Rdatasets`` ``html`` folder is licensed under GPL. You will find a copy of the GPL in the ``license`` folder. 
* I made a good faith effort to determine the license under which the actual data (i.e. rows/columns of numbers) were distributed, but I was unable to find a definitive answer. My understanding is that these data sets are free to re-distribute. However, if you own the rights to data that are included here and you object to their inclusion in ``Rdatasets``, send me an email at varel@umich.edu. I will promptly remove the data in question and will make sure that all traces are erased from the git revision history.
